Now what could be a proper solution for this landscape problem?
Well we could show some switch here at the top, some toggle that actually allows us to switch between Chart
View and ListView where we have these different lists. And therefore here in the main.dart file, we of
course don't always want to render both the chart and the list but either of the two
but what we do always want to render on top of both is a switch? For that thankfully, there is a switch
element in Flutter, a switch widget which is built into Flutter just like that called switch and switch
itself has a couple of fields you can configure.
Most importantly, you can set its value,
true or false, is it enabled or disabled and a function that is triggered whenever the user changes the
switch.
Now of course, some labels would also be good, so let's actually wrap this into a row here and in that
row, we then have a text where we maybe say show chart and next to that, we then have our switch, like that
and we can set the value to true for now so that it's always turned on but of course we should also
handle clicks on the switch where the user is able to change this.
Now we have that chart here,
some centering would also be good I'd say. So on the row, as you learned it, we can of course add some main
axis alignment and ensure that everything is centered along the main axis, which is left to right for
a row
therefore it's centered in the middle.
Now to make those button clickable, we need to manage the onChanged event here, so when user taps it
because you manually need to store the current value of the switch.
So thankfully, we already are in a stateful widget,
otherwise we would have to transform it into one because that switch value is some state which
changes and which has to be reflected on the UI, our widget, our switch here will change after all leave
alone the rest of the page which we here also will change.
And therefore here, I'll add a new property in our class here, maybe below our list here and
it will not be a final one, it'll be a boolean and we could name it show chart because that is in the
end what is controlled with that switch and initially let's say it's false.
Now we can assign or reassign show chart whenever our switch is pressed. So there on the switch, for
onPressed we can define it in an an anonymous function,
of course you could have also used a named one. This function will get the value, the new value that will
be stored which is a boolean,
so Flutter automatically tells you should the new value be true or is it false depending
on whether the switch is turned on or turned off
and therefore in here, you just have to call set state to also retrigger the build method and update
the UI based on the choice and set show chart equal to val,
so the chosen value and of course, set the switch to the currently chosen value so that on the switch,
it's reflected what the user chose. Now with that, that switch is usable and you can switch here.
The next step of course is that we show either the chart or our list of transactions when we press
that switch.
So here, we can use a ternary expression and check show chart, if show chart is true, then I want to show
that chart, otherwise,
so not an addition
but otherwise, I want to show this container here with my list.
So now if we save that, we still have that image problem which we'll also fix but now we only see the
list and only if I turn this on, we see the chart. So that's now of course way better because while still
the styling is off and we'll have to fix that, we certainly now have a way of showing less on the screen
and that is what we want to do here on landscape mode because we have less height available. An alternative
of course would be to make the whole screen scrollable
but then again we'll have the problem with the lists where if we scroll down too far, we only scroll
the ListView and we can't get up again.
So this is the first step,
let's now also make sure that we adjust the chart height here and of course, that we also adjust our image
size here.